README.md, before:

# Flutter Base

This project aimed to be the base of any new Flutter porject.

Base is build on:
- flutter bloc
- clean architecture

You can run the app using this two commands:
```
flutter run --flavor dev
flutter run --flavor prod
```

## Android fix

There's a little bug starting with flutter ```3.7.1``` linked to android build, see [solution here](https://stackoverflow.com/a/75320787).

We needed to change gradle version from 7.5 to 7.6 in ```android/graddle/wrapper/gradle-wrapper.properties```.

## Localization

For localization, the following link was used:

https://docs.flutter.dev/development/accessibility-and-localization/internationalization

In this app, localization is handled by using a custom LocalizationCubit (see [state management](#state-management-with-cubit) part).

This way we can update MaterialApp locale (case with context) and [ConfigHolder](#app-config) locale (case without context).

## App config

All info needed at the start of the app is loaded from native side and store in a ```ConfigHolder```.

This holder is a singleton that can be reached from anywhere in the app, and is defined in ````/lib/core/config````.

It can store info like flavor key, api base url, and other.

It also store the current locale if its needed where context of the app is not reachable.

## State management with Cubit

In this app, ```BLoC``` (Business Logic Component) pattern is used as state management via [flutter_bloc](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_bloc) which extends it.

This pattern aim to extract logic from UI by defining it in a component called ```Cubit``` (or Bloc in the original pattern). See how Cubit works:

<img src="./assets/readme/cubit_architecture_full.png" width="750" height="200"/>

Each Cubit have a state (containing or not data) that will change over time.
UI can listen to this changes and adapt according to current state.
So we can say that ```UI = f (state)```.

When creating a Cubit, you can differentiate two different type:
- ```storage```: load and store some data (ex: get a list of assets)
- ```treatment```: perform an action and give the result to another cubit (ex: add a new asset to the list and get the updated list)

Each type can have multiple states:
- ```loading```: action is not finished
- ```loaded```: action is finished and data is stored
- ```error```: action is finished and error is stored

<img src="./assets/readme/cubit_state_changes.png" width="750" height="411"/>

For each cubit, there is two files linked to it:
- ```example.cubit.state.dart```: containing custom states of this cubit
- ```example.cubit.dart```: defining the cubit and its behavior

## Flavors

This project consider two flavors running on both android ans iOS side: 
- ```dev```
- ```prod```

Each flavor is defined by its name and some customizable values:
- ```api url``` : to get api base url from native conf
- ```app name``` : to specify app display name
- ```bundle suffix``` : to differentiate dev and prod app

Useful links:
- https://www.chwe.at/2020/10/flutter-flavors/
- https://blog.svenadolph.net/flutter-flavors-and-ios-schemes/

### Android

1) Flavors declaration
The ```android/app/build.gradle``` was edited to add dev and prod flavors with their config values.

2) Channels
```MainActivity.kt``` was edited to add channels and method to retrieve value from native on Flutter side.

3) Application
```AndroidManifest.xml``` was edited to define app name according to selected flavor.

### iOS

For iOS platform it's a bit more complex to add flavor because iOS works with schemes.

1) Create Release and Debug config files via Xcode in ```ios/Flutter```

2) Create configurations Debug/Release/Profile in Runner (Project part in Xcode)

<img src="./assets/readme/flavors_ios_runner_configurations.png" width="750" height="553"/>

3) Create dev and prod schemes that use linked configurations defined before

Don't forget to set scheme to shared and they must have the same name than flavors.

5) Check ```User-Defined``` values in ```Targets``` => ```Runner``` => ```Build Settings``` => ```User-defined```

Here you should see some values (```api_url```, ```app_name```, ```bundle_suffix```) based on configurations.

5) Add a ```User-Defined``` named ```app_flavor``` to store flavor value for each configurations

<img src="./assets/readme/flavors_ios_add_user_defined.png" width="750" height="138"/>

<img src="./assets/readme/flavors_ios_user_defined_values.png" width="750" height="556"/>

6) Add entries to ```Info.plist``` in Xcode:
- ```App - values``` as a dictionary with key ```api_url``` linked to ```$(api_url)```
- ```App - flavor``` as a String with value ```$(api_flavor)```

<img src="./assets/readme/flavors_ios_info_plist.png" width="750" height="76"/>

7) Edit ```Bundle display name``` in ```Info.plist``` to value ```$(app_name)```

8) Channels
```AppDelegate.swift``` was edited to add channels and method to retrieve value from native on Flutter side.

9) Edit bundle suffix
- go to ```Targets``` => ```Runner``` => ```Build Settings``` => ```Packaging``` => ```Product Bundle Identifier```
- set general value to ```com.your.bundle(bundle_suffix)```
- you'll see that each configuration as the bundle suffix if defined before

<img src="./assets/readme/flavors_ios_bundle_identifier.png" width="750" height="185"/>

Commit message:

added dio, error handler, getit/injectable, auth feature

README.md, after:

# Flutter Base

This project aimed to be the base of any new Flutter porject.

Base is build on:
- flutter bloc
- clean architecture

You can run the app using this two commands:
```
flutter run --flavor dev
flutter run --flavor prod
```

This project use fvm to handle flutter version.
So use ```fvm flutter``` command instead of ```flutter``` when cleaning, adding plugins, build, etc.

## Android fix

There's a little bug starting with flutter ```3.7.1``` linked to android build, see [solution here](https://stackoverflow.com/a/75320787).

We needed to change gradle version from 7.5 to 7.6 in ```android/graddle/wrapper/gradle-wrapper.properties```.

## Generated files

In this app we use [get_it](https://pub.dev/packages/get_it) combined with [injectable](https://pub.dev/packages/injectable) and [injectable_generator](https://pub.dev/packages/injectable_generator) to handle dependencies injection.

Files concerned by dependencies injection:
- singleton (classes with injectable @singleton)

To generate the dependencies injection file, run this command each time changes are made:
```
fvm flutter packages pub run build_runner build --delete-conflicting-outputs
```

It will generate a file called ```get_it.injector.config.dart``` in the ```\lib``` directory.

## Localization

For localization, the following link was used:

https://docs.flutter.dev/development/accessibility-and-localization/internationalization

In this app, localization is handled by using a custom LocalizationCubit (see [state management](#state-management-with-cubit) part).

This way we can update MaterialApp locale (case with context) and [ConfigHolder](#app-config) locale (case without context).

## App config

All info needed at the start of the app is loaded from native side and store in a ```ConfigHolder```.

This holder is a singleton that can be reached from anywhere in the app, and is defined in ````/lib/core/config````.

It can store info like flavor key, api base url, and other.

It also store the current locale if its needed where context of the app is not reachable.

## State management with Cubit

In this app, ```BLoC``` (Business Logic Component) pattern is used as state management via [flutter_bloc](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_bloc) which extends it.

This pattern aim to extract logic from UI by defining it in a component called ```Cubit``` (or Bloc in the original pattern). See how Cubit works:

<img src="./assets/readme/cubit_architecture_full.png" width="750" height="200"/>

Each Cubit have a state (containing or not data) that will change over time.
UI can listen to this changes and adapt according to current state.
So we can say that ```UI = f (state)```.

When creating a Cubit, you can differentiate two different type:
- ```storage```: load and store some data (ex: get a list of assets)
- ```treatment```: perform an action and give the result to another cubit (ex: add a new asset to the list and get the updated list)

Each type can have multiple states:
- ```loading```: action is not finished
- ```loaded```: action is finished and data is stored
- ```error```: action is finished and error is stored

<img src="./assets/readme/cubit_state_changes.png" width="750" height="411"/>

For each cubit, there is two files linked to it:
- ```example.cubit.state.dart```: containing custom states of this cubit
- ```example.cubit.dart```: defining the cubit and its behavior

## Flavors

This project consider two flavors running on both android ans iOS side: 
- ```dev```
- ```prod```

Each flavor is defined by its name and some customizable values:
- ```api url``` : to get api base url from native conf
- ```app name``` : to specify app display name
- ```bundle suffix``` : to differentiate dev and prod app

Useful links:
- https://www.chwe.at/2020/10/flutter-flavors/
- https://blog.svenadolph.net/flutter-flavors-and-ios-schemes/

### Android

1) Flavors declaration
The ```android/app/build.gradle``` was edited to add dev and prod flavors with their config values.

2) Channels
```MainActivity.kt``` was edited to add channels and method to retrieve value from native on Flutter side.

3) Application
```AndroidManifest.xml``` was edited to define app name according to selected flavor.

### iOS

For iOS platform it's a bit more complex to add flavor because iOS works with schemes.

1) Create Release and Debug config files via Xcode in ```ios/Flutter```

2) Create configurations Debug/Release/Profile in Runner (Project part in Xcode)

<img src="./assets/readme/flavors_ios_runner_configurations.png" width="750" height="553"/>

3) Create dev and prod schemes that use linked configurations defined before

Don't forget to set scheme to shared and they must have the same name than flavors.

5) Check ```User-Defined``` values in ```Targets``` => ```Runner``` => ```Build Settings``` => ```User-defined```

Here you should see some values (```api_url```, ```app_name```, ```bundle_suffix```) based on configurations.

5) Add a ```User-Defined``` named ```app_flavor``` to store flavor value for each configurations

<img src="./assets/readme/flavors_ios_add_user_defined.png" width="750" height="138"/>

<img src="./assets/readme/flavors_ios_user_defined_values.png" width="750" height="556"/>

6) Add entries to ```Info.plist``` in Xcode:
- ```App - values``` as a dictionary with key ```api_url``` linked to ```$(api_url)```
- ```App - flavor``` as a String with value ```$(api_flavor)```

<img src="./assets/readme/flavors_ios_info_plist.png" width="750" height="76"/>

7) Edit ```Bundle display name``` in ```Info.plist``` to value ```$(app_name)```

8) Channels
```AppDelegate.swift``` was edited to add channels and method to retrieve value from native on Flutter side.

9) Edit bundle suffix
- go to ```Targets``` => ```Runner``` => ```Build Settings``` => ```Packaging``` => ```Product Bundle Identifier```
- set general value to ```com.your.bundle(bundle_suffix)```
- you'll see that each configuration as the bundle suffix if defined before

<img src="./assets/readme/flavors_ios_bundle_identifier.png" width="750" height="185"/>
